---
title: "Modulation of CD22 Protein Expression in Childhood Leukemia by Pervasive Splicing Aberrations: Implications for CD22-Directed Immunotherapies"
collection: publications
abstract: 'Downregulation of surface epitopes causes postimmunotherapy relapses in B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Here we demonstrate that mRNA encoding CD22 undergoes aberrant splicing in B-ALL. We describe the plasma membrane–bound CD22 Δex5–6 splice isoform, which is resistant to chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting the third immunoglobulin-like domain of CD22. We also describe splice variants skipping the AUG-containing exon 2 and failing to produce any identifiable protein, thereby defining an event that is rate limiting for epitope presentation. Indeed, forcing exon 2 skipping with morpholino oligonucleotides reduced CD22 protein expression and conferred resistance to the CD22-directed antibody–drug conjugate inotuzumab ozogamicin in vitro. Furthermore, among inotuzumab-treated pediatric patients with B-ALL, we identified one nonresponder in whose leukemic blasts Δex2 isoforms comprised the majority of CD22 transcripts. In a second patient, a sharp reduction in CD22 protein levels during relapse was driven entirely by increased CD22 exon 2 skipping. Thus, dysregulated CD22 splicing is a major mechanism of epitope downregulation and ensuing resistance to immunotherapy.'
date: 2022-03-01
venue: 'Blood Cancer Discovery'
paperurl: 'https://aacrjournals.org/bloodcancerdiscov/article/3/2/103/681790/Modulation-of-CD22-Protein-Expression-in-Childhood'
---
Abstract: Downregulation of surface epitopes causes postimmunotherapy relapses in B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Here we demonstrate that mRNA encoding CD22 undergoes aberrant splicing in B-ALL. We describe the plasma membrane–bound CD22 Δex5–6 splice isoform, which is resistant to chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting the third immunoglobulin-like domain of CD22. We also describe splice variants skipping the AUG-containing exon 2 and failing to produce any identifiable protein, thereby defining an event that is rate limiting for epitope presentation. Indeed, forcing exon 2 skipping with morpholino oligonucleotides reduced CD22 protein expression and conferred resistance to the CD22-directed antibody–drug conjugate inotuzumab ozogamicin in vitro. Furthermore, among inotuzumab-treated pediatric patients with B-ALL, we identified one nonresponder in whose leukemic blasts Δex2 isoforms comprised the majority of CD22 transcripts. In a second patient, a sharp reduction in CD22 protein levels during relapse was driven entirely by increased CD22 exon 2 skipping. Thus, dysregulated CD22 splicing is a major mechanism of epitope downregulation and ensuing resistance to immunotherapy.
