---
title: "NRCAM variant defined by microexon skipping is a targetable cell surface proteoform in high-grade gliomas"
collection: publications
abstract: 'To overcome the paucity of known tumor-specific surface antigens in pediatric high-grade glioma (pHGG), we contrasted splicing patterns in pHGGs and normal brain samples. Among alternative splicing events affecting extracellular protein domains, the most pervasive alteration was the skipping of ≤30-nt-long exons. Several of these skipped microexons mapped to L1-immunoglobulin cell adhesion molecule (IgCAM) family members, such as neuronal CAM (NRCAM). Bulk and single-nuclei short- and long-read RNA-seq revealed uniform skipping of NRCAM microexons 5 and 19 in virtually every pHGG sample. Importantly, the Δex5Δex19 (but not the full-length) NRCAM proteoform was essential for pHGG cell migration and invasion in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. We developed a monoclonal antibody selective for Δex5Δex19 NRCAM and demonstrated that “painting” pHGG cells with this antibody enables killing by T cells armed with an FcRI-based universal immune receptor. Thus, pHGG-specific NRCAM and possibly other L1-IgCAM proteoforms are promising and highly selective targets for adoptive immunotherapies.'
date: 2025-08-25
venue: 'Cell Reports'
paperurl: 'https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/40/3/btae114/7616989?login=false'
---
Abstract: To overcome the paucity of known tumor-specific surface antigens in pediatric high-grade glioma (pHGG), we contrasted splicing patterns in pHGGs and normal brain samples. Among alternative splicing events affecting extracellular protein domains, the most pervasive alteration was the skipping of ≤30-nt-long exons. Several of these skipped microexons mapped to L1-immunoglobulin cell adhesion molecule (IgCAM) family members, such as neuronal CAM (NRCAM). Bulk and single-nuclei short- and long-read RNA-seq revealed uniform skipping of NRCAM microexons 5 and 19 in virtually every pHGG sample. Importantly, the Δex5Δex19 (but not the full-length) NRCAM proteoform was essential for pHGG cell migration and invasion in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. We developed a monoclonal antibody selective for Δex5Δex19 NRCAM and demonstrated that “painting” pHGG cells with this antibody enables killing by T cells armed with an FcRI-based universal immune receptor. Thus, pHGG-specific NRCAM and possibly other L1-IgCAM proteoforms are promising and highly selective targets for adoptive immunotherapies.
